Marty, is that you? Thank god I found you. Listen, can you meet me at Twin Pines Mall tonight at 1:15? I've made a major breakthrough, I'll need your assistance. Yeah. Working. Yeah, he's right here. My equipment, that reminds me, Marty, you better not hook up to the amplifier. There's a slight possibility for overload. Good, I'll see you tonight. Don't forget, now, 1:15 a.m., Twin Pines Mall. Are those my clocks I hear? They're late. My experiment worked. They're all exactly twenty-five minutes slow. Precisely. Marty, you didn't fall asleep, did you? Listen, this is very important, I forgot my video camera, could you stop by my place and pick it up on your way to the mall? Marty, you made it. Welcome to my latest experiment. It's the one I've been waiting for all my life. Bare with me, Marty, all of your questions will be answered. Roll tape, we'll proceed. Never mind that now, never mind that now. Good evening, I'm Doctor Emmett Brown. I'm standing on the parking lot of Twin Pines Mall. It's Saturday morning, October 26, 1985, 1:18 a.m. and this is temporal experiment number one. C'mon, Einy, hey hey boy, get in there, that a boy, in you go, get down, that's it. Please note that Einstein's clock is in complete synchronization with my control watch. Good. Have a good trip Einstein, watch your head. Watch this. Not me, the car, the car. My calculations are correct, when this baby hits eighty-eight miles per hour, your gonna see some serious shit. Watch this, watch this. Ha, what did I tell you, eighty-eight miles per hour. The temporal displacement occurred at exactly 1:20 a.m. and zero seconds. Calm down, Marty, I didn't disintegrate anything. The molecular structure of Einstein and the car are completely intact. The appropriate question is, weren't the hell are they. Einstein has just become the world's first time traveler. I sent him into the future. One minute into the future to be exact. And at exactly 1:21 a.m. we should cat h up with him and the time machine. The way I see it, if you're gonna build a time machine into a car why not do it with some style. Besides, the stainless, steel construction made the flux dispersal- look out. It's cold, damn cold. Ha, ha, ha, Einstein, you little devil. Einstein's clock is exactly one minute behind mine, it's still ticking. He's fine, and he's completely unaware that anything happened. As far as he's concerned the trip was instantaneous. That's why Einstein's watch is exactly one minute behind mine. He skipped over that minute to instantly arrive at this moment in time. Come here, I'll show you how it works. First, you turn the time circuits on. This readout tell you where you're going, this one tells you where you are, this one tells you where you were. You imput the destination time on this keypad. Say, you wanna see the signing of the declaration of independence, or witness the birth or Christ. Here's a red-letter date in the history of science, November 5, 1955. Yes, of course, November 5, 1955. That was the day I invented time travel. I remember it vividly. I was standing on the edge of my toilet hanging a clock, the porces was wet, I slipped, hit my head on the edge of the sink. And when I came to I had a revelation, a picture, a picture in my head, a picture of this. This is what makes time travel possible. The flux capacitor. It's taken me almost thirty years and my entire family fortune to realize the vision of that day, my god has it been that long. Things have certainly changed around here. I remember when this was all farmland as far as the eye could see. Old man Peabody, owned all of this. He had this crazy idea about breeding pine trees. Unfortunately no, it requires something with a little more kick, plutonium. Hey, hey, keep rolling, keep rolling there. No, no, no, no, this sucker's electrical. But I need a nuclear reaction to generate the one point twenty-one gigawatts of electricity that I need. Of course, from a group of Libyan Nationalists. They wanted me to build them a bomb, so I took their plutonium and in turn gave them a shiny bomb case full of used pinball machine parts. Let's get you into a radiation suit, we must prepare to reload. Safe now, everything's let lined. Don't you lose those tapes now, we'll need a record. Wup, wup, I almost forgot my luggage. Who knows if they've got cotton underwear in the future. I'm allergic to all synthetics. That's right, twenty five years into the future. I've always dreamed on seeing the future, looking beyond my years, seeing the progress of mankind. I'll also be able to see who wins the next twenty-five world series. Huh? Indeed I will, roll em. I, Doctor Emmett Brown, am about to embark on an historic journey. What have I been thinking of, I almost forgot to bring some extra plutonium. How did I ever expect to get back, one pallet one trip I must be out of my mind. What is it Einy? Oh my god, they found me, I don't know how but they found me. Run for it, Marty. Who do you think, the Libyans. Unroll their fire. Don't say a word. I don't wanna know your name. I don't wanna know anything anything about you. Quiet. Don't tell me anything. Quiet, quiet. I'm gonna read your thoughts. Let's see now, you've come from a great distance? Don't tell me. Uh, you want me to buy a subscription to the Saturday Evening Post? Not a word, not a word, not a word now. Quiet, uh, donations, you want me to make a donation to the coast guard youth auxiliary? My god, do you know what this means? It means that this damn thing doesn't work at all. Time machine, I haven't invented any time machine. Pretty Mediocre photographic fakery, they cut off your brother's hair. So tell me, future boy, who's president of the United States in 1985? Ronald Reagon, the actor? Then who's vice president, Jerry Lewis? I suppose Jane Wymann is the first lady. And Jack Benny is secretary of the Treasury. I got enough practical jokes for one evening. Good night, future boy. After I fell off my toilet, I drew this. It works, ha ha ha ha, it works. I finally invent something that works. Well, now we gotta sneak this back into my laboratory, we've gotta get you home. Why that's me, look at me, I'm an old man. Thank god I still got my hair. What on Earth is that thing I'm wearing? Radiation suit, of course, cause all of the fall out from the atomic wars. This is truly amazing, a portable television studio. No wonder your president has to be an actor, he's gotta look good on television. What did I just say? One point twenty-one gigawatts. One point twenty-one gigawatts. Great Scott. How could I have been so careless. One point twenty-one gigawatts. Tom, how am I gonna generate that kind of power, it can't be done, it can't. I'm sure that in 1985, plutonium is available at every corner drug store, but in 1955, it's a little hard to come by. Marty, I'm sorry, but I'm afraid you're stuck here. Is she pretty? Marty, I'm sorry, but the only power source capable of generating one point twenty-one gigawatts of electricity is a bolt of lightning. A bolt of lightning, unfortunately, you never know when or where it's ever gonna strike. This is it. This is the answer. It says here that a bolt of lightning is gonna strike the clock tower precisely at 10:04 p.m. next Saturday night. If we could somehow harness this bolt of lightning, channel it into the flux capacitor, it just might work. Next Saturday night, we're sending you back to the future. Marty, that's completely out of the question, you must not leave this house. you must not see anybody or talk to anybody. Anything you do could have serious reprocautions on future events. Do you understand? Marty, you interacted with anybody else today, besides me? Great Scott. Let me see that photograph again of your brother. Just as I thought, this proves my theory, look at your brother. Erased from existence. Now remember, according to my theory you interfered with with your parent's first meeting. They don't meet, they don't fall in love, they won't get married and they wont have kids. That's why your older brother's disappeared from that photograph. Your sister will follow and unless you repair the damages, you will be next. Weight has nothing to do with it. Which one's your pop? Maybe you were adopted. What did your mother ever see in that kid? That's a Florence Nightingale effect. It happens in hospitals when nurses fall in love with their patients. Go to it, kid. This is more serious than I thought. Apparently your mother is amorously infatuated with you instead of your father. Precisely. There's that word again, heavy. Why are things so heavy in the future. Is there a problem with the Earth's gravitational pull? The only way we're gonna get those two to successfully meet is if they're alone together. So you've got to get your father and mother to interact at some sort of social. Right. Well, they're your parents, you must know them. What are there common interests. What do they like to do together? Look, there's a rhythmic ceremonial ritual coming up. Alright kid, you stick to your father like glue and make sure that he takes her to the dance. My god, they found me. I don't know how but they found me. Run for it, Marty. My god, they found me. I don't know how but they found me. Run for it, Marty. Oh, hi , Marty. I didn't hear you come in. Fascinating device, this video unit. Please, Marty, don't tell me, no man should know too much about their own destiny. I do understand. If I know too much about my own future I could endanger my own existence, just as you endangered yours. Let me show you my plan for sending you home. Please excuse the crudity of this model, I didn't have time to build it to scale or to paint it. Oh, thank you, thank you. Okay now, we run some industrial strength electrical cable from the top of the clocktower down to spreading it over the street between two lamp posts. Meanwhile, we out-fitted the vehicle with this big pole and hook which runs directly into the flux-capacitor. At the calculated moment, you start off from down the street driving toward the cable execrating to eighty-eight miles per hour. According to the flyer, at 00:04 pm lightning will strike the clocktower sending one point twenty-one gigawatts into the flux-capacitor, sending you back to 1985. Alright now, watch this. You wind up the car and release it, I'll simulate the lightening. Ready, set, release. Huhh. Don't worry, I'll take care of the lightning, you take care of your pop. By the way, what happened today, did he ask her out? What did she say? It's your mom, she's tracked you down. Quick, let's cover the time machine. Are you sure about this storm? You know Marty, I'm gonna be very sad to see you go. You've really mad a difference in my life, you've given me something to shoot for. Just knowing, that I'm gonna be around to se 1985, that I'm gonna succeed in this. That I'm gonna have a chance to travel through time. It's going to be really hard waiting 30 years before I could talk to you about everything that's happened in the past few days. I'm really gonna miss you, Marty. No, Marty, we've already agreed that having information about the future could be extremely dangerous. Even if your intentions are good, they could backfire drastically. Whatever you've got to tell me I'll find out through the natural course of time. Oh, just a little weather experiment. Oh no, don't touch that. That's some new specialized weather sensing equipment. Of course I do. Just a second, let's see if I could find it. The storm. Damn, where is that kid. Damn. Damn damn. You're late, do you have no concept of time? What? Never? Alright, let's set your destination time. This is the exact time you left. I'm gonna send you back at exactly the same time. It's be like you never left. Now, I painted a white line on the street way over there, that's where you start from. I've calculated the distance and wind resistance fresh to active from the moment the lightning strikes, at exactly 7 minutes and 22 seconds. When this alarm goes off you hit the gas. Well, I guess that's everything. Thank you. In about thirty years. Don't worry. As long as you hit that wire with the connecting hook at precisely 88 miles per hour, the instance the lightning strikes the tower, everything will be fine. What's the meaning of this. It's about the future, isn't it? It's information about the future isn't it. I warned you about this kid. The consequences could be disastrous. No, I refuse to except the responsibility. Oh, great scott. You get the cable, I'll throw the rope down to you. Ahh. C'mon, c'mon let's go. Huh? Huh? Ahh. Ohh, no. Look at the time, you've got less than 4 minutes, please hurry. Ahh. Yoo. Well, I figured, what the hell. About 30 years, it's a nice round number. I will. You too. You bet. Marty you gotta come back with me. Back to the future. I need fuel. Go ahead, quick, get in the car. Well, bring her along. This concerns her too. No no no no no, Marty, both you and Jennifer turn out fine. It's your kids, Marty, something has got to be done about your kids. Roads? Where we're going we don't need roads. Marty! You've gotta come back with me! Back to the future. I need fuel. Quick. Go ahead, quick. Get in the car! Well, bring her along. This concerns her too. No, no, no, no, no, Marty. Both you and Jennifer turn out fine. It's your kids, Marty. Something gotta be done about your kids! Roads? Where we're going, we don't need... roads. We're descending towards Hill Valley, California at 4:29 PM on Wednesday, October 21st, twenty-fifteen. October 21, 2015. They're taking her home, to your future home! We'll arrive shortly thereafter, get her out of there and go back to 1985. No, no, no Marty, that could result in a... [gasps] Great Scott! Jennifer could conceivably encounter her future self! The consequences of that could be disastrous! I foresee two possibilities. One: coming face to face with herself thirty years older would put her into shock and she'd simply pass out. Or two, the encounter could create a time paradox, the result of which could cause a chain reaction that would unravel the very fabric of the space-time continuum and destroy the entire universe! Granted, that's worst-case scenario. The destruction might in fact be very localized, limited to merely our own galaxy. I'm afraid it is happening Marty, all of it! After I found out about your father, I figured you'd come here. Yes Marty, I know. No, it's Hill Valley, although I can't imagine Hell being much worse! Obviously the time continuum has been disrupted, creating a new temporal event sequence resulting in this alternate reality. Here. Here, let me demonstrate. Let's say that this line represents time. [draws straight line and points to places] Here's the present 1985, the future and the past. Obviously, somewhere in the past the timeline skewed down into this tangent [draws new line and writes 1985A] creating an alternate 1985. Alternate to you, me, and Einstein, but reality for everyone else. Recognize this? [shows Blast from the Past bag] It’s the bag the sports book came in; I know because the receipt was still inside. I found them in the time machine...along with this! Correct. They were in the time machine because Biff was in the time machine...with the sports almanac! You see, while we were in the future, Biff got the sports book, stole the time machine, went back in time and gave the book to himself somewhere in the past. Look, it says right here that Biff made his first million betting on a horse race in 1958. He wasn't just lucky, he knew, because he had all the race results in the sports almanac! That's how he made his entire fortune! Take a look at this with a magnifying glass. Well, it's all in the past. Whatever! It demonstrates PRECISELY how time travel can be misused and why the time machine must be destroyed...after we straighten all this out. We can't, because if we travel into the future from this point in time, it will be the future of THIS reality, in which Biff is corrupt, powerful, and married to your mother, and in which THIS has happened to ME!! [holds up newspaper reading "EMMETT BROWN COMMITTED"] No, our only chance to repair the present is in the past, at the point where the time line skewed into this tangent. In order to put the universe back as we remember it and get back to our reality, we have to find out the exact date and specific circumstances of how, when, and where young Biff got his hands on that sports almanac. I don't believe it! Unbelievable that Biff has chosen that date. It could mean that this date might hold some special significance, being the temporal junction point for the entire space-time continuum! Other than that it could just be an amazing coincidence. Time circuits on. Yep. Don't worry, Marty. Assuming we succeed in our mission, this alternate 1985 will be changed to the real 1985, instantaneously transforming around Jennifer and Einie. Jennifer and Einie will be fine, and they'll have absolutely no memory of this horrible place. We must succeed. You were here yesterday, Marty! You were! Amazing isn't it! All right, sunrise should be in about 22 minutes. You go into town, and track down young Biff, and tail him. Sometime today, old Biff will show up to give young Biff the Almanac. Above all, you must not interfere with that event. We must let old Biff believe he succeeded, so that he'll leave 1955 and bring the DeLorean back to the future. Once old Biff is gone, grab that Almanac anyway that you can. Remember, both of our futures depends on this. Well get out of there! Great Scott! If they succeed, you'll miss the lightning bolt at the clock tower, you won't get back to the future, and we'll have a major paradox! Precisely! No! It can't be. I just sent you back to the future. Great Scott! Great Scott! Ooh...Howdy Doody time! Date, Sunday, November 13th, 1955 7:01 AM. Last night's time  travel experiment was apparently a complete success. Lightning struck  the clock tower at precisely 10:04 pm sending the necessary 1.21  gigowatts into the time vehicle, which vanished in a brilliant flash of  light leaving a pair of fire trails behind. I therefore assumed that  Marty and the time vehicle were transported forward through time into  the year 1985. After that...after that...I can't recall what happened.  I don't even remember how I got home! Perhaps the gigowatt discharge  coupled with the temporal displacement field generated by the time  vehicle caused a disruption of my own brain waves resulting in a  condition of temporary amnesia. Indeed I now recall the moments after  the time vehicle disappeared ... into the future ... I saw a vision of  Marty saying, "I've come back from the future." Undoubtedly this was some sort of - AHHH! AHH! AHH! No! It can't be you I just sent you back to the future!! This can't be happening! You can't be here! It doesn't make sense!  I don't believe you are here. 1885? It's a very interesting story, Future Boy, but  there's one little thing that doesn't make sense. If the me in the  future is now in the past, how could you possibly know about it? "Dear Marty: If my calculations are correct, you will receive this  letter immediately after you saw the Delorean struck by lightning.  First, let me assure you that I am alive and well. I have been living  happily these past eight months in the year 1885. The lightning bolt  that hit the DeLorean caused a gigowatt overload which scrambled the  time circuits, activated the flux capacitor, and sent me back to 1885.  The overload shorted out the time circuits and destroyed the flying  circuits. Unforunately, the car will never fly again." It actually flew! Incredible! "I set myself up as a  blacksmith as a front while I attempted to repair the damage to the  time circuits. Unfortunately, this proved impossible because suitable  replacement parts will not be invented until 1947. However, I've gotten  quite adept at shoeing horses and fixing wagons!" 1885! Amazing. I actually end up as a blacksmith in the Ol' West. "I have buried the DeLorean in the Delgato mine  adjacent to the old Boot Hill Cemetery as shown on the enclosed map.  Hopefully it will remain undisturbed and preserved until you uncover it  in 1955. Inside, you will find repair instructions. My 1955  counterpart" - that's me - "should have no problem repairing it so you  can drive it back to the future. Once you have returned to 1985,  destroy the time machine." Destroy it? "Do not - I repeat - do not attempt to come back here to get me. I  am perfectly happy living in the fresh air and wide open spaces, and I  fear that unnecessary time travel only risks further disruption of the  space-time continuum. And please take care of - Einstein for me."  Einstein? "I know you will give him a good  home. Remember to walk him twice a day and that he only likes canned  dog food. These are my wishes. Please respect them and follow them. And  so, Marty, I now say farewell and wish you Godspeed. You've been a  good, kind, and loyal friend to me and you made a real difference in my  life. I will always treasure our relationship, and will think on you  with fond memories, warm feelings and a special place in my heart. Your  friend in time, 'Doc.' Emmett L. Brown."  This says September 1st, 1885. I never knew I could write anything  so touching. Oh, it's all right, Copernicus! Everything's going to be fine. There are plenty worse places to be than the Old West. I could've  ended up in the Dark Ages. They probably would've burned me at the  stake as a heretic or something. Let's look at the map. It says here  the time vehicle is buried here in a side tunnel. We may have to blast. Take this camera... I want to document everything! This reminds me of the time I attempted to reach the center of the  earth. I'd be reading my favorite author, Jules Verne. I spent weeks  preparing for the expedition, I didn't even get this far. Of course, I  was only 12 at the time. It was the writings of Jules Verne that had a  profound effect on my life. I was 11 when I first read 20,000 Leagues  Under the Sea. That's when I realized that I must devote my life into  science. My initials... just like in Journey To The Center of the Earth!  That means the time machine must be right through this wall. It's been buried here for 70 years, 2 months, and 13 days.  Astounding. Schematic. Unbelievable, that his piece of junk could be such a big problem.  No wonder this circuit failed... it says, "Made in Japan." Unbelievable! You know, when I was a kid I always wanted to be a cowboy. Now,  knowing I'll spend my future in the past it sounds like a wonderful way  to spend my retirement years. It just occurred to me...since I end up  in 1885 perhaps I'm now in the history books. I wonder...could I go to  the library and look myself up in the old newspaper archives? You're right, Marty ... I know too much already. Better that I not  attempt to uncover the circumstances of my own... future Copernicus! Come home boy! What's wrong, Marty? You look like you've seen a ghost. Oh! Great Scott! Marty, please don't stand there!! "...shot in the back by Buford Tannen over a matter of 80  dollars!" What kind of a future do you call that?! Does it mention me? Am I one of the twelve? Bringing out a book of old family pictures. Look ... the William  McFly family. Your relatives? McFlys...but no Browns! The Browns came to America in 1908, and then they  were the Von Brauns. My father changed our name in World War I. Oh! Great Scott! It's me! Then it is true. All of it. It is me who  goes back there...and gets shot. The clothes fit? Of course. Haven't you ever seen a Western? Clint who? Marty, you have to wear the boots. You can't wear those futuristic  things in 1885. You shouldn't even be wearing them in 1955. Okay, I think we're about ready. I put gas in the tank, your  future clothes are packed, just in case fresh batteries for your  walkie-talkies. Oh, and what about that floating device? Alright. It's still the safest plan. After all, we can't risk sending you  back to a populated area, or to a spot that's geographically unknown.  You don't want to crash into some trees that once existed in the past.  This is all completely open country! So you'll have plenty of run-out  space when you arrive. Remember where you're going there are no roads.  There's a small cave over there which will be a perfect place to hide  the time vehicle. Well, the new time circuit control tubes are warmed  up! Starting up DeLorean. Time circuits on. I wrote the letter on  September 1st, so we'll send you back the very next day. September 2nd,  that's a Wednesday. September 2nd, 1885, 8 AM. I get shot on Monday the  7th, so you have 5 days to locate me. According to my letter I'm a  blacksmith, so I probably have a shop somewhere. Calling out. All you  have to do is drive the time vehicle directly towards that screen  accelerating at 88 miles per hour.  Marty. You're not thinking fourth dimensionally! You'll instantly  be transported to 1885, and those Indians won't even be there. Well, good luck, for both of our sakes. See you in the future.  Exactly! Happy trails Marty!  Ready Marty? Set! Vaya con dios! It'll shoot the fleas off a dogs back at 500 yards, Tannen, and  its pointed straight at your head!! How do ya figure? Well since you never paid me for the job I say that makes us even! Look, if your horse threw his shoe, bring him back and I'll reshoe  him! Well that's your problem, Tannen! Marty...I gave you explicit instructions not to come here but to  go back directly to 1985. But its good to see ya, Marty. Marty, you're gonna have to do something about those clothes. You  walk around town dressed like that and you're liable to get shot. What idiot dressed you in that outfit? "Shot in the back by Buford Tannen over a matter of 80 dollars!" September seventh!  That's this Monday! Now I wish I'd paid him off! And whose this beloved Clara? I don't know anyone named Clara. Marty. My involvement in such a social relationship, here in 1885, the result is a disruption of the  space-time continuum. As a scientist, I can never take that risk,  certainly not after we've already been through. Hubert! It's the mayor! Oh yes, quite so. Anytime, Hubert! It's impossible. The idea that I could fall in love at first sight? It's romantic nonsense. There's no scientific rationale to that. Marty, please  don't say that! Don't worry, Marty, she'll be fine. When you burned the almanac in  1955, the normal timeline was restored. That means once we're back in  1985, you just have to go over to the house to wake her up. Oh, Marty, turn that valve over there all the way to the right.  Yeah, turn it all the way around. Okay let's go! Iced tea? Well, I guess Miss Clayton will  have to find other transportation. If I never  meet the woman, there's no possibility of a romantic infatuation,  right? Alright then. Let's get the DeLorean and get ourselves back to the  future! You mean we're out of gas? Mr. Fusion powers the time circuits and the flux capacitor. But  the internal combustion engine runs on ordinary gasoline; it always  has. There's not going to be a gas station around here until some time  in the next century. Without gasoline, we can't get the DeLorean up to  88 miles per hour. Ya! Ya! It's no use Marty! Even the fastest horse in the world can't run  more than 35, 40 miles an hour. Ya! Ya! Ya! Try it, Marty. Need more gas... Damn! It blew the fuel injection manifold. Strong stuff all right.  It'll take me a month to rebuild it. I know, I know, I know! I wish...wait. I've got  it! We can roll it down a steep hill...no, we'd never find a smooth  enough surface. Unless...of course...ice. We can wait  until winter...when the lake freezes over... Wait. Let's just think this  thing through logically. We know it can't run on its own power, and we  know we can't pull it. But, if we can figure out a way to push it up to  88 mph...huh? That's it! Well, it's just a little bet that he and I have, that's all.  Theoretically speaking, could it be done? When's the next train coming through here? Here. This spur runs off the main line 3  miles down to Clayton Ravine. There's a long stretch of track that will  still exist in 1985. This is where we'll push the DeLorean with the  locomotive. Funny, this map calls Clayton  ravine Shonash Ravine. Must be an old Indian name for it. It's perfect. Nice long run that goes clear across the bridge  over the ravine, you know, over near that Hilldale housing development. Marty...it's perfect! You're just not thinking fourth  dimensionally! Don't you see? The bridge will exist in 1985. It's safe and still  in use. Therefore, as long as we get the DeLorean up to 88 miles per  hour before we hit the edge of the ravine, we'll instantaneously arrive  at a point in time where the bridge is completed. We'll have track  under us, and coast safely across the ravine! It'll be a spectacular wreck. Too bad no one will be  around to see it. Great Scott! Git! Jump! Whoa. Emmett Brown, at your service, Miss... Clara. What a beautiful name. May I help you inside with these? But it's really no trouble. Clara, I'll straighten everything out with Mr. Statler from the  buckboard rental ... don't you worry about that. I feel someone's  responsible for what happened. You're quite welcome. Of course, you'll see lots of  me, I'm sure, I have a shop in town. I'm a local  scientist...uh...uh...blacksmith. Actually I'm a student of all sciences. Oh yes, well, excuse us Clara, we have to get...going. Toodle-oo. Well...I might see her again, just in passing.  Well, she did have quite a scare, right? After all,  Miss Clayton almost ended up at the bottom of Clayton Ravine. Clayton Ravine... Incredulously. A hundred years ago! That's this year! Great Scott! He stops his horse. Then she was supposed to go over  in that wagon...and now, I may have seriously altered history. He sits  there hopelessly. I wish I'd never invented that infernal time  machine...which caused nothing but disaster. Check, Marty. Alright. I apologize for the crudity of this model... Alright. Tomorrow night, Sunday, we'll load the DeLorean on to the  tracks here on the spur right by the old abandoned silver mine. The  switch track is where the spur runs off the main line 3 miles into  Clayton...Shonash Ravine. The train leaves the station at 8:00 Monday  morning. We'll stop it here, uncouple the cars from the tender, throw  the switchtrack, and hijack - borrow the locomotive and use it to push  the time machine. According to my calculations we'll hit 88 miles per  hour just before we hit the edge of the ravine, at which point we'll  instantaneously arrive in 1985 and coast safely across the completed  bridge. That's our failsafe point. Up until that point we can stop the  locomotive before it plunges over the ravine. But once we pass that  windmill, it's the future or bust. Here you go, Marty. Connect that to the positive terminal. All  right, Marty, you all set? Train pulling out of the station! Coming up the switch track! Stop  at switch track! Throw switch! Pull up the DeLorean! Pushing the DeLorean up to 88 miles per hour! It couldn't be simpler! It's Clara! Quick, cover the DeLorean. Why, hello. This is quite a surprise. Oh no, we were just doing a little model railroad. Quickly. Oh, no, no, no, I wouldn't think of charging you for  this. Well, let's have a look at it. everything becomes... clear. I will repair it right away and have it for you tonight. Of course, the festival...  You're quite welcome. Y'know Marty, in a way it's fitting that you and I are here to  witness this. The only problem is we'll never be able to show it to anybody. What great music! Good evening. You look very...nice. Would you like...uh...would you care to, uh... Tannen. But you're early. I wouldn't give you the pleasure; you'll just have to go ahead and shoot. Stop it! Damn you, Tannen! Marty...no. Marty, what are you doing, saying you're going to meet Tannen?? Theoretically, yes, but what if the train's late?? We'll discuss this later. Marty...uh, Clint...I'm going to take Clara home. Uh-huh. Oh, please, continue your lesson. I never found lunar  geography so fascinating. You're quite knowledgeable. You've read Jules Verne? So do I. 20,000 Leagues Under The Sea, my absolute favorite. The  first time I read that when I was a little boy I wanted to meet Captain  Nemo and... Oh, yes, well...I meant it made me feel  like a boy. I never met a woman who liked Jules Verne before. Oh, nothing...just out enjoying the morning air.  It's really lovely here in the morning, don't you think? Marty, let me see that photograph again. My name...it's vanished. But only my name is erased! The tombstone itself and the date  still remain. That doesn't make sense. We know that this photograph  represents what will happen if the events of today continue to run  their course into tomorrow. So...it may not be my name that's supposed to end up on that  tombstone. It may be yours. Marty, you can't go losing your judgment every time someone calls  you a name! That's exactly what causes you to get into that accident in  the future. Marty...we all have to make decisions that affect the  course of our lives. You've gotta do what you've gotta do. And I've  gotta do what I've gotta do. Marty. I've made a decision. I'm not going with you tomorrow. I'm staying  here. There's no point in denying it. I'm in love with Clara. Marty...the future isn't written. It can be changed; you know  that! Anyone can make their future whatever they want it to be. I can't  let this one little photograph determine my entire destiny. I have to  live my life according to what I believe is right... in my heart. I've at least gotta tell her goodbye. To the future? You've reminded me, Marty, I'm a  scientist so I must be scientific about this. I cautioned you about  disruption of the continuum for your own personal benefit; therefore I  must do no less. We will proceed as planned, and as soon as we return  to 1985 we'll destroy this infernal machine. Traveling through time has  become much too painful. No...I better not. I... I've come to say goodbye. I'm going away...and I'm afraid I'll never see you again. Clara...I want you know that I care about you deeply, but I  realize that I don't belong here, and I have to go back to where I came  from. ...I can't tell you. I can't, Clara. I wish it didn't have to be this way...but just  believe me when I say that I'll never forget you and that...I love you. Clara...I don't think there's anyway that you can understand it. All right then. I'm from the future. Clara looks at him in  disbelief. I came here in a time machine that I invented and tomorrow I  have to go back to the year 1985. But that's not the truth! No, Chester, I'm gonna need something a lot stronger than that  tonight. Whiskey, Chester. Whiskey. Oh-ho. Clara was one in a million. One in a billion. One in a  googolplex. The woman of my dreams and I lost her for all time. Oh-ho...the future, I can tell you about the future. ...but in the future, we don't need horses. We have horseless  carriages called auto-mo-biles. Of course they run. But for recreation, for fun. I lost her, Marty. There's nothing left of me here. Gentlemen, excuse me, but my friend and I have to catch a train. Amen. WAHHHH!! HOT! HOT! Whoa! I think so...whoa, what a headache! The thing I really miss here is Tylenol. Forget about me, Marty, and save yourself! Look! The train! We'll have to cut it off at coyote pass! C'mon Marty! Ah, gimme your hand! Wa-ha! Hoo! C'mon, Marty! C'mon, let's go! Masks on. Freeze! I've wanted to do that my whole life! My own version of Presto Logs. Compressed wood with anthracite  dust chemically treated to make the fire burn hotter and longer. I use  them in my forge. These three will light the fire sequentially, make  the fire burn hotter, kick up the boiler pressure and make the train go  faster. Clara! You can do it! Just don't look down...that's it! You're doing fine! Nice and steady! Come on! Just a  little further! Come on...you're doing fine...nice and easy...that's it...don't  look down... Clara!! Whoa!! Clara! Hold on! Marty! Watch out! Hold on, Clara! Whoo! Whoa! Hold on! Marty! Marty! It runs on steam! He opens the doors of the train and he  and Clara stand in the "doorway". Meet the family. Clara, you know.  Clara appears next to him. These are our boys! Two young boys step into sight. One looks  about ten, the other six or seven. Jules, and Verne! Boys, this is  Marty and Jennifer. Can't keep a good scientist down. After all, I had to come back  for Einstein, and I didn't want you to be worried about me. Oh. I brought you a little souvenir. Of course it's erased! It means that your future hasn't been written yet. No one's has.  Your future is whatever you make it. So make it a good one. Both of ya! Stand back! As the doors close: All right, boys, buckle up! Nope. Already been there!  